# Drug-drug interaction detection ML model
The goal of this project is to develop an ML model using **NLP** methods for **detecting relationships between drug entities** in textual documents. More precisely, the model has to predict the type of relationship between a pair of entities in a textual document. The project was written entirely in Python and open-source *semantic dependency* library **stanfordCoreNLP** https://stanfordnlp.github.io/CoreNLP/.
The data used is a public pharmaceutical drugs dataset with labeled entities and relationships and external sources - list of hazardous compounds (HSDB) and drug library (DrugBank). The project contains the following sections:
1. Feature Extraction - features were added iteratively and kept only if they improved a metric (F1 score, accuracy, precision, recall). These features: *lemma, word, lemma+PoS tag, is entity* were used for the following tokens: (at most) 3 non-stopword tokens between the pair, for the token before first entity of the pair, the token after the second entity of the pair and for the lowest common subsumer (LCS) of the pair. Additional features include: is there a any entity between the pair, path from first entity of the pair to LCS, path from LCS to second entity of the pair, complete path from first to second, distance between first and second, entity type of the first and entity type of the second.
2. Model training - the candidate models are *Naive Bayes* as baseline model, *XGBoost*, *SVC*. XGBoost and SVC required the use of a vectorizer to convert the features into numerical data. Grid search with 3-fold cross-validation was used for hyperparameter tuning.
3. Result analysis
